Tuesday, June the 25th   the Supreme Court cut the 5the section of the Civiil Right Act of 1965, requiring thus far (until there ? jusque là ) strict federal control over any attempt to change local rules of access to voting. Which I think is a decision synonymous of a regress ( flashback? synonyme de retour en arrière) for many Americans 



LE VOTING RIGHTS ACT DE 1965 : SYMBOLE DE LA « GREAT SOCIETY »
 
Section 5 has been in the heart of ( in the center of ? être au Coeur de) many debates, mainly triggered (Raised? Déclenché)  by Republicans from 1966 until today (now?). Since 1969, iIt requires local jurisdictions to have the consent of the Department of Justice thanks to a preclearance (Advance approval by a federal court or the Department of Justice for changes to voting regulations in certain states under the 1965 Voting Rights Act before changing any electoral process. They must above all prove that the change of the law does not deteriorate the political power of ethno-racial minority.

 



MORT DE LA SECTION 5 : UN RETOUR EN ARRIÈRE MASQUÉ DERRIÈRE DES FAUX AIRS DE PROGRÈS RÉGIONAL 


And it is precisely this preliminary federal control, contained in Section 5 of the original Act, which has been removed by the Supreme Court of the United States. The backbone (épine dorsale) of the Voting Rights Act, was considered increasingly obsolete by many conservatives. 


Why keep up to date(garder au gout du jour)  a legal provision restricting in the freedom of some states, knowing that it is justified by events and litigation (litiges) which has disappeared more than 50 years?


The majority of Supreme Court(s juges considered that there was no element in favor maintaining this section, and therefore simply abolished the original text.




Specifically, local authorities now have almost a free hand to set their own rules on access to the vote of the population. The states of the south do not have to obtain any prior federal approval if they want to impose new constraints on electoral their minorities, which is a first since 1965.

The changes to the electoral process could include : altering the criteria to become a candidate or voter, move a polling station (bureau de vote), change the language of the ballots or change the boundaries (frontières) of electoral districts.

Some experts are quick to sound the alarm, as for example Dr. Jonathan Holloway, professor of African American Studies at Yale, who did not hesitate to describe the consequences of this vote of "dramatic" for affected populations debause of the quite irreversible nature of this decision.

The state of Texas has already announced the introduction of new rules for access to vote for its inhabitants, as a "Vote ID" voter identity card of a new genre. 

The principle of this project is simple: ban (bannir) access to the polls (urnes) to many minorities as they have for most no driving license, no experience in managing such administrative procedures, or time to go throw the necessary steps. 


Needless to say, the law frontally opposed to all developments over the last 50 years in terms of civil rights. Should we expect a generalization of the phenomenon and trivialization (banalisation) of a "disfranchisement 2.0"? 


The answer is yes certainly. Six of the nine southern states concerned have already expressed their willingness (volonté) to undertake reforms as to how access to the voting of their minorities, and 31 states across the country seem inclined to follow this example. 


The next debate could focus on the issue of detainees (détenus), who are denied in some states the right to vote as in Florida.

Why did the Supreme Court agreedes to vote for the death of section 5 , knowing well that this decision would be the cause of a step back for civil rights for minorities ? 

And above all, why does the Republicans give so much importance to the deletion (effacement) of this part of the Voting Rights Act? 




 

UNE DÉCISION BIEN PLUS POLITIQUE QU’IDÉOLOGIQUE :

 
If the example of Texas is interesting is primarily (avant tout) because it shows that the decision of the Supreme Court is the result of political motivations. The issue here is not purely racial, as it was fifty years ago. 
The point is not to limit the civil rights of minorities because they are despised or considered unfit to access the voting default line with the standards of their citizens. 

The United States is not Europe and we should not mix the debates on the vote of foreigners in France, and what it can happen right now in Texas. The decision of the Constitutional Court is instrumental before being ideological.

While many civil rights activists are mourning the death of Section 5, many are also realistic about the significance of this decision. John Lewis, one of the last veterans of the civil rights struggles of the 50s, is one of the most lucid Democrats when it comes to account (de rendre compte) for the motivations of the Supreme Court.

For several years Republicans violently attacked the 5th Section, not because it is outdated, but because it allows a growing electorate who (which?)is extremely unfavorable to continue to vote freely for their Democratic opponents. 
 

To understand the logic of the Republicans, we can observe a few simple figures. Hispanic immigration is more and more significant and change the demographic face of the United States.

Even if American nation has always been highlighted for its miscegenation, Whites had so far remained the most numerous, and therefore the most decisive in the electoral level.

Now all this is changing gradually, and a census (recensement) conducted in 2010 on the US population showed that the proportion of whites will become a minority in 2043 compared to the sum of the populations of other countries.

The "Non-Whites" as they are called, weigh more and more in the strategic calculations of both political parties, because their votes have more than ever the ability to tilt (basculer) the outcome of all elections.

For, those people tend to vote in majority Democratic. The figures of the election of November 2012 confirm this trend: 71% of Hispanics and 93% of African Americans gave their vote to Obama.


South of the country is not spared, and it is even there that Hispanic populations are growing the most quickly since 2000. The region is increasingly multicultural, and the vote of minorities tends to shake his past logic.

 Some analysts are wondering if the Deep South could not one day become a Democrat.

 

Trapped in a demographic dynamics that are unfavorable to the very heart of ( au coeur même) their historic HQ, Republicans have therefore preferred to temporarily stifle (étouffer) the problem rather than treat it at the source.

Rather than adapt their ideological line to the changing American electorate, and strive (lutter) to become attractive to "Non-Whites", they preferred to silence (faire taire ) their voice in addressing human rights. 

In other words they have instrumentalized the Supreme Court to clear their growing electoral weakness. 

Section 5 has been sacrificed in the vain attempt, just as the right to vote for many Texans who do not have the opportunity to bow to the constraints of the voting ID. 
By being obstinate to rely only on a “white vote” increasingly insignificant, the Republican Party is in my opinion shooting themselves (itself??) in the foot (se tirer une balle dans le pied)

This would not necessarily be a bad thing if It doen’tbring down with them (entrainer dans sa chute) the legacy of 50 years of struggle for civil rights. 

